I'm going to start by talking about some simple operations that we can do in binary and we're going to start with the idea of addition so with addition of binary numbers things ate fairly straightforward we just add the numbers as we would any other numbers with one spacial case that we'll need to talk about and that would be the case where we have 1 plus 1 in our values so let me most walk you through each of the diferent cases that we can have with addition.
we could have zero plus zero which is of course equal to zero.
we have zero plus one which is of course equal to one. 
One plus zero which is also wqual to one and then we have one plus one which is actually equal to one zero the reason begin is that this is the number two right if I take one and add them fogether I get two as a result so this is realy themain like special case that you have to worry about the other cases are very standart and intuitive when we actually deal with adding numbers together you'll see that the two plays into it as a carry much like you would have a carry in normal base 10 edition so if have let's say 0 1 0 0 like this and I add these two numbers together so if I add these numbers I get 0 1 0.  Carry the 1 and then we have 1 plus 0 plus 0 which is equal to 1. 
And you can see that this is intuitively true because this is um  4 and 2 which would be 6 - this is 4 
If I have those together I chould get 10. This is 8 and 2 which would give us 10.
So you can see that actually does give us the propre results sos that works as expected so that's the idea of addition you realy just have to remember thats four cases and then as long as you have those four cases in your head you're going to be able to do any sort of addition of binary numbers and of course it does help to convert to decimal and then you know convert back to binary if that's something that you want to do but begin able to think of binary makes the process a bit quicker.
Now in addition to adding numbers I want to talk a little bit about signed binary numbers because signed binary numbers are something that come up a lot in low-level programming and if you see them and you don't know that they're signed it's actually going to be fairly tricky to understand exactly what's happening so let's discuss the idea of signed binary numbers and to do that I want to talk about the groupings of binary numbers so whith binary numbers we typicaly group them in sets of four.
So we would have four digits and then four digits and the reason why we do that is because basically each of these represents like a unit of memory typically so when you combine eight of these bits together you eng up with a byte right so that's sort of the idea of what we're doing when we're grouping these together so typically we would see eight bits as a single byte of data right so this would be like a single byte of data and then we can forther divide it into four um into four bits each in order to get the idea of sort of like um half of a byte right.
So when we're looking at this the way that we represent signed numbers that begin a positive or begative numbers is using the topmost bit of the binary number.
So when we do this what we do is we say if a number is negative we're gonna set that bit to be a one so for instance if I wanted to make the numbers negative two I would have 1000 0010 .
This represents that the number is negative the rest of this is the binary number.
So this here is the number two. So that tells us that it's two but it's negative bacause of this one in front of it. So that's the idea of how we represent negative numbers we just allocate the top bit to be the sign a zero would mean that it's positive and a one would mean that it's a negative.
Now something kind of interesting happens here if you remember in normal arithmetic we have some rules really to addition and related to subtraction. So if you take the letter a say that a represents um some number and we add it to the negation of itself what we would get is we would get the value 0 right so this is a law  in arithmetic and ideally we would want this law to also apply to binary numbers now it doesn't currently becouse we have two here or sorry rather negative two and if I add that to just 